# Vinylbase 1.1This application was developed monolithically in Django (on both front-end and back-end).It was actually meant to be a safe place to store the author's personal LPs collection.It is also meant to be a simple example of what can be done in Django with not many lines of code.## 1. INSTALLATION### 1.1 Django and Python packagesInstall Python 3.10.Please install all the requirements present in the requirements.txt file.### 1.2 .env configurationThe environment secrets should be collected in the .env file and located in the root folder. Please review and set up all the values and your personal credentials.### 1.3 Database setupThe project can make use of one of the two following databases:- SQLite- PostgreSQL#### 1.3.1 SQLiteThere is no particular setting up procedure for SQLite. Just Uncomment the SQLite part in the settings.py and commentout the ones regarding other databases.#### 1.3.2 PostgreSQL (MacOS procedure)Uncomment the PostgreSQL support in the settings.py and comment out the settings for other databases.To set up this, please do the following:- Install Homebrew: `/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"`- Install the PostgreSQL server: `brew install postgresql`- Start a new PostgreSQL server: `pg_ctl -D /usr/local/var/postgres start`- Create a new PostgreSQL database: `createdb vinylbase_db`> Some more useful commands:> To delete the database (perhaps for recreating it later): `dropdb vinylbase_db`> To get the status of PostgreSQL server: `pg_ctl -D /usr/local/var/postgres status`> To stop a running PostgreSQL server: `pg_ctl -D /usr/local/var/postgres stop`### 1.4 MigrationsMigrations need to be run in order to create in the database the correct schemas, fields, tables, etc... to be capableto correctly store the data.To set up this, please do the following (https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.0/topics/migrations/):- Create migration files: `python manage.py makemigrations`- Migrate to the database: `python manage.py migrate`## 2. GENERAL PROJECT STRUCTURE### 2.1 GeneralThe project follows a typical Django project structure.2 apps are present:1. users: defines everything related to the users functionalities (including signup, login and password change)3. vinyls: defines everything related to vinylsThe naming of the folders follows common Django project rules. However, some changes to the folder structure/naming have been made: - the name of the folder containing settings.py, etc..., has been changed to _project in order not to be confused with the root folder- the folder containing media files is named _media and is at the same level of _project folder- the folder containing html template files is named _templates and is at the same level of _project folder### 2.2 ModelsCheck the models.py file in each app folder and the datamodel.drawio### 2.3 ViewsThe views have been built function-based. Check the views.py file in each app folder.## 3. LAUNCHING THE APPLICATIONFrom the root folder, the one where manage.py is located execute the following:`python3 manage.py runserver`The superuser should be recreated in order to access the /admin/ page:`python3 manage.py createsuperuser` (it will ask to set the credentials)##############&copy; Copyright Nikita Volkov 2022